Sometimes Winnie-the-Pooh likes a game of some sort when he comes; downstairs, and sometimes he likes to sit quietly in front of the fire; and listen to a story. This evening----
One day when he was out walking, he came to an open place in the middle; of the forest, and in the middle of this place was a large oak-tree,; and, from the top of the tree, there came a loud buzzing-noise.
    It's a very funny thought that, if Bears were Bees,;     They'd build their nests at the _bottom_ of trees.;     And that being so (if the Bees were Bears),;     We shouldn't have to climb up all these stairs.
"You see, what I _meant_ to do," he explained, as he turned; head-over-heels, and crashed on to another branch thirty feet below,; "what I _meant_ to do----"
"It all comes, I suppose," he decided, as he said good-bye to the last; branch, spun round three times, and flew gracefully into a gorse-bush,; "it all comes of _liking_ honey so much. Oh, help!"
He crawled out of the gorse-bush, brushed the prickles from his nose,; and began to think again. And the first person he thought of was; Christopher Robin.
"Yes, I just said to myself coming along: 'I wonder if Christopher Robin; has such a thing as a balloon about him?' I just said it to myself,; thinking of balloons, and wondering."
"They might or they might not," said Winnie-the-Pooh. "You never can; tell with bees." He thought for a moment and said: "I shall try to look; like a small black cloud. That will deceive them."
There was no wind to blow him nearer to the tree, so there he stayed. He; could see the honey, he could smell the honey, but he couldn't quite; reach the honey.
"I wish you would bring it out here, and walk up and down with it, and; look up at me every now and then, and say 'Tut-tut, it looks like rain.'; I think, if you did that, it would help the deception which we are; practising on these bees."
"Oh, there you are!" called down Winnie-the-Pooh, as soon as you got; back to the tree. "I was beginning to get anxious. I have discovered; that the bees are now definitely Suspicious."
"A pity. Well, now, if you walk up and down with your umbrella, saying,; 'Tut-tut, it looks like rain,' I shall do what I can by singing a little; Cloud Song, such as a cloud might sing.... Go!"
Winnie-the-Pooh hadn't thought about this. If he let go of the string,; he would fall--_bump_--and he didn't like the idea of that. So he; thought for a long time, and then he said:
"I'm so sorry," you said, and you fired again, and this time you hit the; balloon, and the air came slowly out, and Winnie-the-Pooh floated down; to the ground.
"I do remember," he said, "only Pooh doesn't very well, so that's why he; likes having it told to him again. Because then it's a real story and; not just a remembering."
Christopher Robin gave a deep sigh, picked his Bear up by the leg, and; walked off to the door, trailing Pooh behind him. At the door he turned; and said, "Coming to see me have my bath?"
      _Tra-la-la, tra-la-la,_;       _Tra-la-la, tra-la-la,_;     _Rum-tum-tiddle-um-tum._;       _Tiddle-iddle, tiddle-iddle,_;       _Tiddle-iddle, tiddle-iddle,_;     _Rum-tum-tum-tiddle-um._
Well, he was humming this hum to himself, and walking along gaily,; wondering what everybody else was doing, and what it felt like, being; somebody else, when suddenly he came to a sandy bank, and in the bank; was a large hole.
Winnie-the-Pooh took his head out of the hole, and thought for a little,; and he thought to himself, "There must be somebody there, because; somebody must have _said_ 'Nobody.'" So he put his head back in the; hole, and said:
"Well, I wasn't sure. You know how it is in the Forest. One can't have; _anybody_ coming into one's house. One has to be _careful_. What about a; mouthful of something?"
Now by this time Rabbit wanted to go for a walk too, and finding the; front door full, he went out by the back door, and came round to Pooh,; and looked at him.
Christopher Robin lived at the other end of the Forest, and when he came; back with Rabbit, and saw the front half of Pooh, he said, "Silly old; Bear," in such a loving voice that everybody felt quite hopeful again.
"I was just beginning to think," said Bear, sniffing slightly, "that; Rabbit might never be able to use his front door again. And I should; _hate_ that," he said.
So he took hold of Pooh's front paws and Rabbit took hold of Christopher; Robin, and all Rabbit's friends and relations took hold of Rabbit, and; they all pulled together....
And Christopher Robin and Rabbit and all Rabbit's friends and relations; went head-over-heels backwards ... and on the top of them came; Winnie-the-Pooh--free!
So, with a nod of thanks to his friends, he went on with his walk; through the forest, humming proudly to himself. But, Christopher Robin; looked after him lovingly, and said to himself, "Silly old Bear!"
"I shall have to wait until I catch up with it," said Winnie-the-Pooh.; "Now, look there." He pointed to the ground in front of him. "What do; you see there?"
With these few words he went on tracking, and Piglet, after watching him; for a minute or two, ran after him. Winnie-the-Pooh had come to a sudden; stop, and was bending over the tracks in a puzzled sort of way.
Piglet scratched his ear in a nice sort of way, and said that he had; nothing to do until Friday, and would be delighted to come, in case it; really _was_ a Woozle.
"You mean, in case it really is two Woozles," said Winnie-the-Pooh, and; Piglet said that anyhow he had nothing to do until Friday. So off they; went together.
"_What?_" said Piglet, with a jump. And then, to show that he hadn't; been frightened, he jumped up and down once or twice more in an; exercising sort of way.
"No," said Pooh, "because it makes different marks. It is either Two; Woozles and one, as it might be, Wizzle, or Two, as it might be, Wizzles; and one, if so it is, Woozle. Let us continue to follow them."
And so it seemed to be. There were the tracks; crossing over each other; here, getting muddled up with each other there; but, quite plainly every; now and then, the tracks of four sets of paws.
"It isn't the sort of thing you can do in the afternoon," said Piglet; quickly. "It's a very particular morning thing, that has to be done in; the morning, and, if possible, between the hours of----What would you; say the time was?"
"Ah, then you'll be all right," said Piglet. "You'll be quite safe with; _him_. Good-bye," and he trotted off home as quickly as he could, very; glad to be Out of All Danger again.
"Silly old Bear," he said, "what _were_ you doing? First you went round; the spinney twice by yourself, and then Piglet ran after you and you; went round again together, and then you were just going round a fourth; time----"
He sat down and thought, in the most thoughtful way he could think. Then; he fitted his paw into one of the Tracks ... and then he scratched his; nose twice, and stood up.
"And if anyone knows anything about anything," said Bear to himself,; "it's Owl who knows something about something," he said, "or my name's; not Winnie-the-Pooh," he said. "Which it is," he added. "So there you; are."
Owl lived at The Chestnuts, an old-world residence of great charm, which; was grander than anybody else's, or seemed so to Bear, because it had; both a knocker _and_ a bell-pull. Underneath the knocker there was a; notice which said:
"Terrible and Sad," said Pooh, "because Eeyore, who is a friend of mine,; has lost his tail. And he's Moping about it. So could you very kindly; tell me how to find it for him?"
"A lick of honey," murmured Bear to himself, "or--or not, as the case; may be." And he gave a deep sigh, and tried very hard to listen to what; Owl was saying.
But Owl went on and on, using longer and longer words, until at last he; came back to where he started, and he explained that the person to write; out this notice was Christopher Robin.
For some time now Pooh had been saying "Yes" and "No" in turn, with his; eyes shut, to all that Owl was saying, and having said, "Yes, yes," last; time, he said "No, not at all," now, without really knowing what Owl was; talking about.
; One day, when Christopher Robin and Winnie-the-Pooh and Piglet were; all talking together, Christopher Robin finished the mouthful he was; eating and said carelessly: "I saw a Heffalump to-day, Piglet."
"Pooh," said Piglet, feeling quite happy again now, "I will." And then; he said, "How shall we do it?" and Pooh said, "That's just it. How?" And; then they sat down together to think it out.
Pooh was very proud when he heard this, and he felt that the Heffalump; was as good as caught already, but there was just one other thing which; had to be thought about, and it was this. _Where should they dig the; Very Deep Pit?_
"He would Suspect," said Pooh, "if he happened to look down." He thought; for a long time and then added sadly, "It isn't as easy as I thought. I; suppose that's why Heffalumps hardly _ever_ get caught."
"Well," said Piglet, "I should do it like this. I should make a Trap,; and I should put a Jar of Honey in the Trap, and you would smell it, and; you would go in after it, and----"
"Yes, well never mind about that. There you would be, and there I should; catch you. Now the first thing to think of is, What do Heffalumps like?; I should think acorns, shouldn't you? We'll get a lot of----I say, wake; up, Pooh!"
"Well, good night, Pooh," said Piglet, when they had got to Pooh's; house. "And we meet at six o'clock to-morrow morning by the Pine Trees,; and see how many Heffalumps we've got in our Trap."
He had murmured this to himself three times in a singing sort of way,; when suddenly he remembered. He had put it into the Cunning Trap to; catch the Heffalump.
"Bother!" said Pooh, as he got his nose inside the jar. "A Heffalump has; been eating it!" And then he thought a little and said, "Oh, no, _I_; did. I forgot."
So off he went. At first he thought that there wouldn't be a Heffalump; in the Trap, and then he thought that there would, and as he got nearer; he was _sure_ that there would, because he could hear it heffalumping; about it like anything.
"Oh, dear, oh, dear, oh, dear!" said Piglet to himself. And he wanted to; run away. But somehow, having got so near, he felt that he must just see; what a Heffalump was like. So he crept to the side of the Trap and; looked in....
"Like--like----It had the biggest head you ever saw, Christopher Robin.; A great enormous thing, like--like nothing. A huge big--well, like a--I; don't know--like an enormous big nothing. Like a jar."
Then Piglet saw what a Foolish Piglet he had been, and he was so ashamed; of himself that he ran straight off home and went to bed with a; headache. But Christopher Robin and Pooh went home to breakfast; together.
He turned and walked slowly down the stream for twenty yards, splashed; across it, and walked slowly back on the other side. Then he looked at; himself in the water again.
Pooh sat down on a large stone, and tried to think this out. It sounded; to him like a riddle, and he was never much good at riddles, being a; Bear of Very Little Brain. So he sang _Cottleston Pie_ instead:
    Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie,;     A fly can't bird, but a bird can fly.;     Ask me a riddle and I reply:;     "_Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie._"
That was the first verse. When he had finished it, Eeyore didn't; actually say that he didn't like it, so Pooh very kindly sang the second; verse to him:
    Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie,;     A fish can't whistle and neither can I.;     Ask me a riddle and I reply:;     "_Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie_."
    Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie,;     Why does a chicken, I don't know why.;     Ask me a riddle and I reply:;     "_Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie_."
"Of course it is. Can't you see? Look at all the presents I have had."; He waved a foot from side to side. "Look at the birthday cake. Candles; and pink sugar."
"It's bad enough," said Eeyore, almost breaking down, "being miserable; myself, what with no presents and no cake and no candles, and no proper; notice taken of me at all, but if everybody else is going to be; miserable too----"
"_That_ was what I wanted to ask you," said Pooh. "Because my spelling; is Wobbly. It's good spelling but it Wobbles, and the letters get in the; wrong places. Would _you_ write 'A Happy Birthday' on it for me?"
"Can you read, Pooh?" he asked a little anxiously. "There's a notice; about knocking and ringing outside my door, which Christopher Robin; wrote. Could you read it?"
"Well, _actually_, of course, I'm saying 'A Very Happy Birthday with; love from Pooh.' Naturally it takes a good deal of pencil to say a long; thing like that."
"Well, that's funny," he thought. "I wonder what that bang was. I; couldn't have made such a noise just falling down. And where's my; balloon? And what's that small piece of damp rag doing?"
"Oh, dear!" said Piglet "Oh, dear, oh, dearie, dearie, dear! Well, it's; too late now. I can't go back, and I haven't another balloon, and; perhaps Eeyore doesn't _like_ balloons so _very_ much."
"It's a Useful Pot," said Pooh. "Here it is. And it's got 'A Very Happy; Birthday with love from Pooh' written on it. That's what all that; writing is. And it's for putting things in. There!"
"The best way," said Rabbit, "would be this. The best way would be to; steal Baby Roo and hide him, and then when Kanga says, 'Where's Baby; Roo?' we say, '_Aha!_'"
"We say '_Aha!_' so that Kanga knows that _we_ know where Baby Roo is.; '_Aha!_' means 'We'll tell you where Baby Roo is, if you promise to go; away from the Forest and never come back.' Now don't talk while I; think."
"Oh!" said Piglet, and tried not to look disappointed. But Pooh went; into a corner of the room and said proudly to himself, "Impossible; without Me! _That_ sort of Bear."
"Now listen all of you," said Rabbit when he had finished writing, and; Pooh and Piglet sat listening very eagerly with their mouths open. This; was what Rabbit read out:
   4. _A Thought._ If Roo had jumped out of Kanga's pocket and Piglet;       had jumped in, Kanga wouldn't know the difference, because Piglet;       is a Very Small Animal.
Well, Rabbit read this out proudly, and for a little while after he had; read it nobody said anything. And then Piglet, who had been opening and; shutting his mouth without making any noise, managed to say very; huskily:
Rabbit and Piglet, who had now come up from the other side of the hill,; said "Good afternoon," and "Hallo, Roo," and Roo asked them to look at; him jumping, so they stayed and looked.
    On Tuesday, when it hails and snows,;     The feeling on me grows and grows;     That hardly anybody knows;     If those are these or these are those.
    On Thursday, when it starts to freeze;     And hoar-frost twinkles on the trees,;     How very readily one sees;     That these are whose--but whose are these?
But there were moments when Piglet wished that Kanga couldn't. Often,; when he had had a long walk home through the Forest, he had wished that; he were a bird; but now he thought jerkily to himself at the bottom of; Kanga's pocket,
And as he went up in the air he said, "_Ooooooo!_" and as he came down; he said, "_Ow!_" And he was saying, "_Ooooooo-ow, Ooooooo-ow,; Ooooooo-ow_" all the way to Kanga's house.
"_Aha!_" said Piglet, as well as he could after his Terrifying Journey.; But it wasn't a very good "_Aha!_" and Kanga didn't seem to understand; what it meant.
"I am not at all sure," said Kanga in a thoughtful voice, "that it; wouldn't be a good idea to have a _cold_ bath this evening. Would you; like that, Roo, dear?"
"Yes, dear, yes," said Kanga soothingly. "And imitating Piglet's voice; too! So clever of him," she went on, as she took a large bar of yellow; soap out of the cupboard. "What _will_ he be doing next?"
"You--you--you did it on purpose," spluttered Piglet, as soon as he; could speak again ... and then accidentally had another mouthful of; lathery flannel.
Pooh sat down, dug his feet into the ground, and pushed hard against; Christopher Robin's back, and Christopher Robin pushed hard against his,; and pulled and pulled at his boot until he had got it on.
"I'm not asking anybody," said Eeyore. "I'm just telling everybody. We; can look for the North Pole, or we can play 'Here we go gathering Nuts; and May' with the end part of an ant's nest. It's all the same to me."
So off they all went to discover the Pole. And as they walked, they; chattered to each other of this and that, all except Pooh, who was; making up a song.
Pooh, who now knew what an Ambush was, said that a gorse-bush had sprung; at him suddenly one day when he fell off a tree, and he had taken six; days to get all the prickles out of himself.
"All except me," said Eeyore. "As Usual." He looked round at them in his; melancholy way. "I suppose none of you are sitting on a thistle by any; chance?"
As soon as he had finished his lunch Christopher Robin whispered to; Rabbit, and Rabbit said "Yes, yes, of course," and they walked a little; way up the stream together.
"Sure to be a pole," said Rabbit, "because of calling it a pole, and if; it's a pole, well, I should think it would be sticking in the ground,; shouldn't you, because there'd be nowhere else to stick it."
"Tell Roo to be quick, somebody," he said. "My tail's getting cold. I; don't want to mention it, but I just mention it. I don't want to; complain but there it is. My tail's cold."
; It rained and it rained and it rained. Piglet told himself that never; in all his life, and _he_ was goodness knows _how_ old--three, was it,; or four?--never had he seen so much rain. Days and days and days.
He left the window and began to search his house, all of it that wasn't; under water, and at last he found a pencil and a small piece of dry; paper, and a bottle with a cork to it. And he wrote on one side of the; paper:
And it was on the morning of the fourth day that Piglet's bottle came; floating past him, and with one loud cry of "Honey!" Pooh plunged into; the water, seized the bottle, and struggled back to his tree again.
So he took his biggest jar, and corked it up. "All boats have to have a; name," he said, "so I shall call mine _The Floating Bear_." And with; these words he dropped his boat into the water and jumped in after it.
"On my boat," said Pooh proudly. "I had a Very Important Missage sent me; in a bottle, and owing to having got some water in my eyes, I couldn't; read it, so I brought it to you. On my boat."
"Then would you fly to him at _once_ and say that Rescue is Coming? And; Pooh and I will think of a Rescue and come as quick as ever we can. Oh,; don't _talk_, Owl, go on quick!" And, still thinking of something to; say, Owl flew off.
"I ought to say," explained Pooh as they walked down to the shore of the; island, "that it isn't just an ordinary sort of boat. Sometimes it's a; Boat, and sometimes it's more of an Accident. It all depends."
"I shall call this boat _The Brain of Pooh_," said Christopher Robin,; and _The Brain of Pooh_ set sail forthwith in a south-westerly; direction, revolving gracefully.
Owl felt that it was rather beneath him to talk about little cake things; with pink sugar icing, so he told Pooh exactly what Christopher Robin; had said, and flew off to Eeyore.
"Very interesting," said Eeyore. "I suppose they will be sending me down; the odd bits which got trodden on. Kind and Thoughtful. Not at all,; don't mention it."
Later on, when they had all said "Good-bye" and "Thank-you" to; Christopher Robin, Pooh and Piglet walked home thoughtfully together in; the golden evening, and for a long time they were silent.
He gave a deep sigh, picked his bear up by the leg and walked off to the; door, trailing Winnie-the-Pooh behind him. At the door he turned and; said "Coming to see me have my bath?"
“You swear,” I said, “to be harmless; but have you not; already shown a degree of malice that should reasonably make me distrust; you? May not even this be a feint that will increase your triumph by; affording a wider scope for your revenge?”
“I consent to your demand, on your solemn oath to quit Europe for ever,; and every other place in the neighbourhood of man, as soon as I shall; deliver into your hands a female who will accompany you in your exile.”
Saying this, he suddenly quitted me, fearful, perhaps, of any change in; my sentiments. I saw him descend the mountain with greater speed than; the flight of an eagle, and quickly lost among the undulations of the; sea of ice.
These were wild and miserable thoughts, but I cannot describe to you; how the eternal twinkling of the stars weighed upon me and how I; listened to every blast of wind as if it were a dull ugly siroc on its; way to consume me.
Pardon this gush of sorrow; these ineffectual words are but a slight; tribute to the unexampled worth of Henry, but they soothe my heart,; overflowing with the anguish which his remembrance creates. I will; proceed with my tale.
Beyond Cologne we descended to the plains of Holland; and we resolved to; post the remainder of our way, for the wind was contrary and the stream of; the river was too gentle to aid us.
Presently I heard the sound of footsteps along the passage; the door; opened, and the wretch whom I dreaded appeared. Shutting the door, he; approached me and said in a smothered voice,
“Devil, cease; and do not poison the air with these sounds of malice.; I have declared my resolution to you, and I am no coward to bend; beneath words. Leave me; I am inexorable.”
I would have seized him, but he eluded me and quitted the house with; precipitation. In a few moments I saw him in his boat, which shot; across the waters with an arrowy swiftness and was soon lost amidst the; waves.
Almost spent, as I was, by fatigue and the dreadful suspense I endured; for several hours, this sudden certainty of life rushed like a flood of; warm joy to my heart, and tears gushed from my eyes.
“You will know that soon enough,” replied a man with a hoarse voice.; “Maybe you are come to a place that will not prove much to your taste,; but you will not be consulted as to your quarters, I promise you.”
“Ay, sir, free enough for honest folks. Mr. Kirwin is a magistrate,; and you are to give an account of the death of a gentleman who was; found murdered here last night.”
I must pause here, for it requires all my fortitude to recall the memory of; the frightful events which I am about to relate, in proper detail, to my; recollection.
Another woman confirmed the account of the fishermen having brought the; body into her house; it was not cold. They put it into a bed and; rubbed it, and Daniel went to the town for an apothecary, but life was; quite gone.
I replied in the same language, with a feeble voice, “I believe I am;; but if it be all true, if indeed I did not dream, I am sorry that I am; still alive to feel this misery and horror.”
“That is my least concern; I am, by a course of strange events, become; the most miserable of mortals. Persecuted and tortured as I am and; have been, can death be any evil to me?”
“This suspense is a thousand times worse than the most horrible event;; tell me what new scene of death has been acted, and whose murder I am; now to lament?”
Mr. Kirwin regarded me with a troubled countenance. He could not help; regarding my exclamation as a presumption of my guilt and said in; rather a severe tone,
“My father!” cried I, while every feature and every muscle was relaxed; from anguish to pleasure. “Is my father indeed come? How kind, how; very kind! But where is he, why does he not hasten to me?”
“Alas! Yes, my father,” replied I; “some destiny of the; most horrible kind hangs over me, and I must live to fulfil it, or surely I; should have died on the coffin of Henry.”
Upon this occasion my father said, with an expression of unbounded wonder,; “My dearest Victor, what infatuation is this? My dear son, I entreat; you never to make such an assertion again.”
“None on earth. I love Elizabeth and look forward to our union with; delight. Let the day therefore be fixed; and on it I will consecrate; myself, in life or death, to the happiness of my cousin.”
Thus Elizabeth endeavoured to divert her thoughts and mine from all; reflection upon melancholy subjects. But her temper was fluctuating;; joy for a few instants shone in her eyes, but it continually gave place; to distraction and reverie.
The magistrate listened to me with attention and kindness. “Be; assured, sir,” said he, “no pains or exertions on my part shall; be spared to discover the villain.”
I had begun my adjuration with solemnity and an awe which almost assured me; that the shades of my murdered friends heard and approved my devotion, but; the furies possessed me as I concluded, and rage choked my utterance.
I darted towards the spot from which the sound proceeded, but the devil; eluded my grasp. Suddenly the broad disk of the moon arose and shone; full upon his ghastly and distorted shape as he fled with more than; mortal speed.
I exchanged my land-sledge for one fashioned for the inequalities of; the Frozen Ocean, and purchasing a plentiful stock of provisions, I; departed from land.
“Are you mad, my friend?” said he. “Or whither does your; senseless curiosity lead you? Would you also create for yourself and the; world a demoniacal enemy? Peace, peace! Learn my miseries and do not seek; to increase your own.”
; A scene has just passed of such uncommon interest that, although it is; highly probable that these papers may never reach you, yet I cannot; forbear recording it.
He paused, looking on me with wonder, and again turning towards the; lifeless form of his creator, he seemed to forget my presence, and; every feature and gesture seemed instigated by the wildest rage of some; uncontrollable passion.
“Your repentance,” I said, “is now superfluous. If you; had listened to the voice of conscience and heeded the stings of remorse; before you had urged your diabolical vengeance to this extremity,; Frankenstein would yet have lived.”
ROMEO.; Bid her devise; Some means to come to shrift this afternoon,; And there she shall at Friar Lawrence’ cell; Be shriv’d and married. Here is for thy pains.
NURSE.; Ah, mocker! That’s the dog’s name. R is for the—no, I know it begins; with some other letter, and she hath the prettiest sententious of it,; of you and rosemary, that it would do you good to hear it.
JULIET.; Now, good sweet Nurse,—O Lord, why look’st thou sad?; Though news be sad, yet tell them merrily;; If good, thou sham’st the music of sweet news; By playing it to me with so sour a face.
NURSE.; Lord, how my head aches! What a head have I!; It beats as it would fall in twenty pieces.; My back o’ t’other side,—O my back, my back!; Beshrew your heart for sending me about; To catch my death with jauncing up and down.
JULIET.; Where is my mother? Why, she is within.; Where should she be? How oddly thou repliest.; ‘Your love says, like an honest gentleman,; ‘Where is your mother?’
Here comes the lady. O, so light a foot; Will ne’er wear out the everlasting flint.; A lover may bestride the gossamers; That idles in the wanton summer air; And yet not fall; so light is vanity.
JULIET.; Conceit more rich in matter than in words,; Brags of his substance, not of ornament.; They are but beggars that can count their worth;; But my true love is grown to such excess,; I cannot sum up sum of half my wealth.
FRIAR LAWRENCE.; Come, come with me, and we will make short work,; For, by your leaves, you shall not stay alone; Till holy church incorporate two in one.
BENVOLIO.; I pray thee, good Mercutio, let’s retire:; The day is hot, the Capulets abroad,; And if we meet, we shall not scape a brawl,; For now these hot days, is the mad blood stirring.
MERCUTIO.; Consort? What, dost thou make us minstrels? And thou make minstrels of; us, look to hear nothing but discords. Here’s my fiddlestick, here’s; that shall make you dance. Zounds, consort!
BENVOLIO.; We talk here in the public haunt of men.; Either withdraw unto some private place,; And reason coldly of your grievances,; Or else depart; here all eyes gaze on us.
MERCUTIO.; But I’ll be hanged, sir, if he wear your livery.; Marry, go before to field, he’ll be your follower;; Your worship in that sense may call him man.
ROMEO.; Tybalt, the reason that I have to love thee; Doth much excuse the appertaining rage; To such a greeting. Villain am I none;; Therefore farewell; I see thou know’st me not.
ROMEO.; I do protest I never injur’d thee,; But love thee better than thou canst devise; Till thou shalt know the reason of my love.; And so good Capulet, which name I tender; As dearly as mine own, be satisfied.
ROMEO.; Draw, Benvolio; beat down their weapons.; Gentlemen, for shame, forbear this outrage,; Tybalt, Mercutio, the Prince expressly hath; Forbid this bandying in Verona streets.; Hold, Tybalt! Good Mercutio!
MERCUTIO.; Help me into some house, Benvolio,; Or I shall faint. A plague o’ both your houses.; They have made worms’ meat of me.; I have it, and soundly too. Your houses!
BENVOLIO.; Romeo, away, be gone!; The citizens are up, and Tybalt slain.; Stand not amaz’d. The Prince will doom thee death; If thou art taken. Hence, be gone, away!
BENVOLIO.; O noble Prince, I can discover all; The unlucky manage of this fatal brawl.; There lies the man, slain by young Romeo,; That slew thy kinsman, brave Mercutio.
LADY CAPULET.; Tybalt, my cousin! O my brother’s child!; O Prince! O husband! O, the blood is spill’d; Of my dear kinsman! Prince, as thou art true,; For blood of ours shed blood of Montague.; O cousin, cousin.
NURSE.; I saw the wound, I saw it with mine eyes,; God save the mark!—here on his manly breast.; A piteous corse, a bloody piteous corse;; Pale, pale as ashes, all bedaub’d in blood,; All in gore-blood. I swounded at the sight.
JULIET.; O, break, my heart. Poor bankrout, break at once.; To prison, eyes; ne’er look on liberty.; Vile earth to earth resign; end motion here,; And thou and Romeo press one heavy bier.
JULIET.; What storm is this that blows so contrary?; Is Romeo slaughter’d and is Tybalt dead?; My dearest cousin, and my dearer lord?; Then dreadful trumpet sound the general doom,; For who is living, if those two are gone?
NURSE.; There’s no trust,; No faith, no honesty in men. All perjur’d,; All forsworn, all naught, all dissemblers.; Ah, where’s my man? Give me some aqua vitae.; These griefs, these woes, these sorrows make me old.; Shame come to Romeo.
JULIET.; Blister’d be thy tongue; For such a wish! He was not born to shame.; Upon his brow shame is asham’d to sit;; For ’tis a throne where honour may be crown’d; Sole monarch of the universal earth.; O, what a beast was I to chide at him!
NURSE.; Hie to your chamber. I’ll find Romeo; To comfort you. I wot well where he is.; Hark ye, your Romeo will be here at night.; I’ll to him, he is hid at Lawrence’ cell.
ROMEO.; Yet banished? Hang up philosophy.; Unless philosophy can make a Juliet,; Displant a town, reverse a Prince’s doom,; It helps not, it prevails not, talk no more.
NURSE.; O, she says nothing, sir, but weeps and weeps;; And now falls on her bed, and then starts up,; And Tybalt calls, and then on Romeo cries,; And then down falls again.
And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it. “They must; go by the carrier,” she thought; “and how funny it’ll seem, sending; presents to one’s own feet! And how odd the directions will look!
Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall: in fact she was; now more than nine feet high, and she at once took up the little golden; key and hurried off to the garden door.
Poor Alice! It was as much as she could do, lying down on one side, to; look through into the garden with one eye; but to get through was more; hopeless than ever: she sat down and began to cry again.
“We indeed!” cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end of his; tail. “As if _I_ would talk on such a subject! Our family always; _hated_ cats: nasty, low, vulgar things! Don’t let me hear the name; again!”
; They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the bank—the; birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their fur clinging close; to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and uncomfortable.
“I thought you did,” said the Mouse. “—I proceed. ‘Edwin and Morcar,; the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him: and even; Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found it advisable—’”
“I know what ‘it’ means well enough, when _I_ find a thing,” said the; Duck: “it’s generally a frog or a worm. The question is, what did the; archbishop find?”
“Speak English!” said the Eaglet. “I don’t know the meaning of half; those long words, and, what’s more, I don’t believe you do either!” And; the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile: some of the other birds; tittered audibly.
“What _is_ a Caucus-race?” said Alice; not that she wanted much to; know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that _somebody_ ought to; speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.
“Why,” said the Dodo, “the best way to explain it is to do it.” (And,; as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter day, I will; tell you how the Dodo managed it.)
“Why, _she_, of course,” said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with one; finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her, calling out in a; confused way, “Prizes! Prizes!”
Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand in her; pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt water had; not got into it), and handed them round as prizes. There was exactly; one a-piece, all round.
Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo solemnly; presented the thimble, saying “We beg your acceptance of this elegant; thimble;” and, when it had finished this short speech, they all; cheered.
Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked so grave; that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not think of anything; to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble, looking as solemn as; she could.
“You promised to tell me your history, you know,” said Alice, “and why; it is you hate—C and D,” she added in a whisper, half afraid that it; would be offended again.
“Please come back and finish your story!” Alice called after it; and; the others all joined in chorus, “Yes, please do!” but the Mouse only; shook its head impatiently, and walked a little quicker.
“But then,” thought Alice, “shall I _never_ get any older than I am; now? That’ll be a comfort, one way—never to be an old woman—but; then—always to have lessons to learn! Oh, I shouldn’t like _that!_”
“Oh, you foolish Alice!” she answered herself. “How can you learn; lessons in here? Why, there’s hardly room for _you_, and no room at all; for any lesson-books!”
And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other, and; making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few minutes; she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen.
Next came an angry voice—the Rabbit’s—“Pat! Pat! Where are you?” And; then a voice she had never heard before, “Sure then I’m here! Digging; for apples, yer honour!”
; His speaking voice, a gruff husky tenor, added to the impression of; fractiousness he conveyed. There was a touch of paternal contempt in; it, even toward people he liked—and there were men at New Haven who; had hated his guts.
Turning me around by one arm, he moved a broad flat hand along the; front vista, including in its sweep a sunken Italian garden, a half; acre of deep, pungent roses, and a snub-nosed motorboat that bumped; the tide offshore.
The other girl, Daisy, made an attempt to rise—she leaned slightly; forward with a conscientious expression—then she laughed, an absurd,; charming little laugh, and I laughed too and came forward into the; room.
“The whole town is desolate. All the cars have the left rear wheel; painted black as a mourning wreath, and there’s a persistent wail all; night along the north shore.”
“Oh, I’ll stay in the East, don’t you worry,” he said, glancing at; Daisy and then back at me, as if he were alert for something; more. “I’d be a God damned fool to live anywhere else.”
Before I could reply that he was my neighbour dinner was announced;; wedging his tense arm imperatively under mine, Tom Buchanan compelled; me from the room as though he were moving a checker to another square.
Slenderly, languidly, their hands set lightly on their hips, the two; young women preceded us out on to a rosy-coloured porch, open toward; the sunset, where four candles flickered on the table in the; diminished wind.
“You did it, Tom,” she said accusingly. “I know you didn’t mean to,; but you did do it. That’s what I get for marrying a brute of a man, a; great, big, hulking physical specimen of a—”
“You make me feel uncivilized, Daisy,” I confessed on my second glass; of corky but rather impressive claret. “Can’t you talk about crops or; something?”
“Civilization’s going to pieces,” broke out Tom violently. “I’ve; gotten to be a terrible pessimist about things. Have you read The Rise; of the Coloured Empires by this man Goddard?”
“Well, it’s a fine book, and everybody ought to read it. The idea is; if we don’t look out the white race will be—will be utterly; submerged. It’s all scientific stuff; it’s been proved.”
“Tom’s getting very profound,” said Daisy, with an expression of; unthoughtful sadness. “He reads deep books with long words in; them. What was that word we—”
“Well, these books are all scientific,” insisted Tom, glancing at her; impatiently. “This fellow has worked out the whole thing. It’s up to; us, who are the dominant race, to watch out or these other races will; have control of things.”
“Well, he wasn’t always a butler; he used to be the silver polisher; for some people in New York that had a silver service for two hundred; people. He had to polish it from morning till night, until finally it; began to affect his nose—”
“I love to see you at my table, Nick. You remind me of a—of a rose, an; absolute rose. Doesn’t he?” She turned to Miss Baker for confirmation:; “An absolute rose?”
“Her family is one aunt about a thousand years old. Besides, Nick’s; going to look after her, aren’t you, Nick? She’s going to spend lots; of weekends out here this summer. I think the home influence will be; very good for her.”
“Did I?” She looked at me. “I can’t seem to remember, but I think we; talked about the Nordic race. Yes, I’m sure we did. It sort of crept; up on us and first thing you know—”
I said lightly that I had heard nothing at all, and a few minutes; later I got up to go home. They came to the door with me and stood; side by side in a cheerful square of light. As I started my motor; Daisy peremptorily called: “Wait!
I think he’d tanked up a good deal at luncheon, and his determination; to have my company bordered on violence. The supercilious assumption; was that on Sunday afternoon I had nothing better to do.
We waited for her down the road and out of sight. It was a few days; before the Fourth of July, and a grey, scrawny Italian child was; setting torpedoes in a row along the railroad track.
So Tom Buchanan and his girl and I went up together to New York—or not; quite together, for Mrs. Wilson sat discreetly in another car. Tom; deferred that much to the sensibilities of those East Eggers who might; be on the train.
We backed up to a grey old man who bore an absurd resemblance to John; D. Rockefeller. In a basket swung from his neck cowered a dozen very; recent puppies of an indeterminate breed.
The Airedale—undoubtedly there was an Airedale concerned in it; somewhere, though its feet were startlingly white—changed hands and; settled down into Mrs. Wilson’s lap, where she fondled the; weatherproof coat with rapture.
We drove over to Fifth Avenue, warm and soft, almost pastoral, on the; summer Sunday afternoon. I wouldn’t have been surprised to see a great; flock of white sheep turn the corner.
Just as Tom and Myrtle (after the first drink Mrs. Wilson and I called; each other by our first names) reappeared, company commenced to arrive; at the apartment door.
“But it looks wonderful on you, if you know what I mean,” pursued Mrs.; McKee. “If Chester could only get you in that pose I think he could; make something of it.”
“I should change the light,” he said after a moment. “I’d like to; bring out the modelling of the features. And I’d try to get hold of; all the back hair.”
“I told that boy about the ice.” Myrtle raised her eyebrows in despair; at the shiftlessness of the lower orders. “These people! You have to; keep after them all the time.”
She looked at me and laughed pointlessly. Then she flounced over to; the dog, kissed it with ecstasy, and swept into the kitchen, implying; that a dozen chefs awaited her orders there.
“Ask Myrtle,” said Tom, breaking into a short shout of laughter as; Mrs. Wilson entered with a tray. “She’ll give you a letter of; introduction, won’t you, Myrtle?”
“You’ll give McKee a letter of introduction to your husband, so he can; do some studies of him.” His lips moved silently for a moment as he; invented, “ ‘George B. Wilson at the Gasoline Pump,’ or something like; that.”
“Can’t stand them.” She looked at Myrtle and then at Tom. “What I say; is, why go on living with them if they can’t stand them? If I was them; I’d get a divorce and get married to each other right away.”
“You see,” cried Catherine triumphantly. She lowered her voice again.; “It’s really his wife that’s keeping them apart. She’s a Catholic, and; they don’t believe in divorce.”
The late afternoon sky bloomed in the window for a moment like the; blue honey of the Mediterranean—then the shrill voice of Mrs. McKee; called me back into the room.
“I married him because I thought he was a gentleman,” she said; finally. “I thought he knew something about breeding, but he wasn’t; fit to lick my shoe.”
“She really ought to get away from him,” resumed Catherine to me.; “They’ve been living over that garage for eleven years. And Tom’s the; first sweetie she ever had.”
Then I was lying half asleep in the cold lower level of the; Pennsylvania Station, staring at the morning Tribune, and waiting for; the four o’clock train.
I was on my way to get roaring drunk from sheer embarrassment when; Jordan Baker came out of the house and stood at the head of the marble; steps, leaning a little backward and looking with contemptuous; interest down into the garden.
She held my hand impersonally, as a promise that she’d take care of me; in a minute, and gave ear to two girls in twin yellow dresses, who; stopped at the foot of the steps.
“Sure I did. I was going to wear it tonight, but it was too big in the; bust and had to be altered. It was gas blue with lavender beads. Two; hundred and sixty-five dollars.”
We got up, and she explained that we were going to find the host: I; had never met him, she said, and it was making me uneasy. The; undergraduate nodded in a cynical, melancholy way.
“Absolutely real—have pages and everything. I thought they’d be a nice; durable cardboard. Matter of fact, they’re absolutely real.  Pages; and—Here! Lemme show you.”
“I was brought by a woman named Roosevelt,” he continued. “Mrs. Claud; Roosevelt. Do you know her? I met her somewhere last night. I’ve been; drunk for about a week now, and I thought it might sober me up to sit; in a library.”
"I know what I mean, and you needn't be _statirical_ about it. It's; proper to use good words, and improve your _vocabilary_," returned Amy,; with dignity.
"Don't peck at one another, children. Don't you wish we had the money; papa lost when we were little, Jo? Dear me! how happy and good we'd be,; if we had no worries!" said Meg, who could remember better times.
"You said the other day, you thought we were a deal happier than the; King children, for they were fighting and fretting all the time, in; spite of their money."
"Jo does use such slang words!" observed Amy, with a reproving look at; the long figure stretched on the rug. Jo immediately sat up, put her; hands in her pockets, and began to whistle.
"'Birds in their little nests agree,'" sang Beth, the peace-maker, with; such a funny face that both sharp voices softened to a laugh, and the; "pecking" ended for that time.
Every one thought soberly for a minute; then Meg announced, as if the; idea was suggested by the sight of her own pretty hands, "I shall give; her a nice pair of gloves."
"I don't mean to act any more after this time; I'm getting too old for; such things," observed Meg, who was as much a child as ever about; "dressing-up" frolics.
"Do it this way; clasp your hands so, and stagger across the room,; crying frantically, 'Roderigo! save me! save me!'" and away went Jo,; with a melodramatic scream which was truly thrilling.
"I don't see how you can write and act such splendid things, Jo. You're; a regular Shakespeare!" exclaimed Beth, who firmly believed that her; sisters were gifted with wonderful genius in all things.
"No, it's the toasting fork, with mother's shoe on it instead of the; bread. Beth's stage-struck!" cried Meg, and the rehearsal ended in a; general burst of laughter.
A quick, bright smile went round like a streak of sunshine. Beth clapped; her hands, regardless of the biscuit she held, and Jo tossed up her; napkin, crying, "A letter! a letter! Three cheers for father!"
"Hurry and get done! Don't stop to quirk your little finger, and simper; over your plate, Amy," cried Jo, choking in her tea, and dropping her; bread, butter side down, on the carpet, in her haste to get at the; treat.
"Not for many months, dear, unless he is sick. He will stay and do his; work faithfully as long as he can, and we won't ask for him back a; minute sooner than he can be spared. Now come and hear the letter."
They all drew to the fire, mother in the big chair with Beth at her; feet, Meg and Amy perched on either arm of the chair, and Jo leaning on; the back, where no one would see any sign of emotion if the letter; should happen to be touching.
"My favorite part was when we came out on the flat roof where our; flowers and arbors and pretty things were, and all stood and sung for; joy up there in the sunshine," said Beth, smiling, as if that pleasant; moment had come back to her.
"Let us do it," said Meg thoughtfully. "It is only another name for; trying to be good, and the story may help us; for though we do want to; be good, it's hard work, and we forget, and don't do our best."
In spite of her small vanities, Margaret had a sweet and pious nature,; which unconsciously influenced her sisters, especially Jo, who loved her; very tenderly, and obeyed her because her advice was so gently given.
Then she opened her new book and began to read. Jo put her arm round; her, and, leaning cheek to cheek, read also, with the quiet expression; so seldom seen on her restless face.
"How good Meg is! Come, Amy, let's do as they do. I'll help you with the; hard words, and they'll explain things if we don't understand,"; whispered Beth, very much impressed by the pretty books and her sisters'; example.
"I'm glad mine is blue," said Amy; and then the rooms were very still; while the pages were softly turned, and the winter sunshine crept in to; touch the bright heads and serious faces with a Christmas greeting.
"She took it out a minute ago, and went off with it to put a ribbon on; it, or some such notion," replied Jo, dancing about the room to take the; first stiffness off the new army-slippers.
"How nice my handkerchiefs look, don't they? Hannah washed and ironed; them for me, and I marked them all myself," said Beth, looking proudly; at the somewhat uneven letters which had cost her such labor.
"Isn't it right? I thought it was better to do it so, because Meg's; initials are 'M. M.,' and I don't want any one to use these but Marmee,"; said Beth, looking troubled.
"It's all right, dear, and a very pretty idea,--quite sensible, too, for; no one can ever mistake now. It will please her very much, I know," said; Meg, with a frown for Jo and a smile for Beth.
"Don't laugh at me, Jo! I didn't mean any one should know till the time; came. I only meant to change the little bottle for a big one, and I gave; _all_ my money to get it, and I'm truly trying not to be selfish any; more."
"You see I felt ashamed of my present, after reading and talking about; being good this morning, so I ran round the corner and changed it the; minute I was up: and I'm _so_ glad, for mine is the handsomest now."
"I thought you'd do it," said Mrs. March, smiling as if satisfied. "You; shall all go and help me, and when we come back we will have bread and; milk for breakfast, and make it up at dinner-time."
They were soon ready, and the procession set out. Fortunately it was; early, and they went through back streets, so few people saw them, and; no one laughed at the queer party.
A poor, bare, miserable room it was, with broken windows, no fire,; ragged bed-clothes, a sick mother, wailing baby, and a group of pale,; hungry children cuddled under one old quilt, trying to keep warm.
"That's loving our neighbor better than ourselves, and I like it," said; Meg, as they set out their presents, while their mother was upstairs; collecting clothes for the poor Hummels.
Not a very splendid show, but there was a great deal of love done up in; the few little bundles; and the tall vase of red roses, white; chrysanthemums, and trailing vines, which stood in the middle, gave; quite an elegant air to the table.
"She's coming! Strike up, Beth! Open the door, Amy! Three cheers for; Marmee!" cried Jo, prancing about, while Meg went to conduct mother to; the seat of honor.
There was a good deal of laughing and kissing and explaining, in the; simple, loving fashion which makes these home-festivals so pleasant at; the time, so sweet to remember long afterward, and then all fell to; work.
A soft strain of music sounded, and then at the back of the cave; appeared a little figure in cloudy white, with glittering wings, golden; hair, and a garland of roses on its head. Waving a wand, it sang,--
         "Hither I come,;           From my airy home,;         Afar in the silver moon.;           Take the magic spell,;           And use it well,;         Or its power will vanish soon!"
"It's a mercy you didn't, mother!" laughed Jo, looking at her boots.; "But we'll have another play, some time, that he _can_ see. Perhaps; he'll help act; wouldn't that be jolly?"
After a pause, Lord Henry pulled out his watch. “I am afraid I must be; going, Basil,” he murmured, “and before I go, I insist on your; answering a question I put to you some time ago.”
“Oh, there is really very little to tell, Harry,” answered the painter;; “and I am afraid you will hardly understand it. Perhaps you will hardly; believe it.”
“My dear fellow, she tried to found a _salon_, and only succeeded in; opening a restaurant. How could I admire her? But tell me, what did she; say about Mr. Dorian Gray?”
Hallward shook his head. “You don’t understand what friendship is,; Harry,” he murmured—“or what enmity is, for that matter. You like every; one; that is to say, you are indifferent to every one.”
“I think you are wrong, Basil, but I won’t argue with you. It is only; the intellectually lost who ever argue. Tell me, is Dorian Gray very; fond of you?”
The painter turned to his servant, who stood blinking in the sunlight.; “Ask Mr. Gray to wait, Parker: I shall be in in a few moments.” The man; bowed and went up the walk.
“This is Lord Henry Wotton, Dorian, an old Oxford friend of mine. I; have just been telling him what a capital sitter you were, and now you; have spoiled everything.”
“You have not spoiled my pleasure in meeting you, Mr. Gray,” said Lord; Henry, stepping forward and extending his hand. “My aunt has often; spoken to me about you. You are one of her favourites, and, I am; afraid, one of her victims also.”
“You are too charming to go in for philanthropy, Mr. Gray—far too; charming.” And Lord Henry flung himself down on the divan and opened; his cigarette-case.
“Oh, please don’t, Lord Henry. I see that Basil is in one of his sulky; moods, and I can’t bear him when he sulks. Besides, I want you to tell; me why I should not go in for philanthropy.”
“Basil,” cried Dorian Gray, “if Lord Henry Wotton goes, I shall go,; too. You never open your lips while you are painting, and it is; horribly dull standing on a platform and trying to look pleasant. Ask; him to stay. I insist upon it.”
“Just turn your head a little more to the right, Dorian, like a good; boy,” said the painter, deep in his work and conscious only that a look; had come into the lad’s face that he had never seen there before.
“Stop!” faltered Dorian Gray, “stop! you bewilder me. I don’t know what; to say. There is some answer to you, but I cannot find it. Don’t speak.; Let me think. Or, rather, let me try not to think.”
Yes; there had been things in his boyhood that he had not understood.; He understood them now. Life suddenly became fiery-coloured to him. It; seemed to him that he had been walking in fire. Why had he not known; it?
Hallward painted away with that marvellous bold touch of his, that had; the true refinement and perfect delicacy that in art, at any rate comes; only from strength. He was unconscious of the silence.
They rose up and sauntered down the walk together. Two green-and-white; butterflies fluttered past them, and in the pear-tree at the corner of; the garden a thrush began to sing.
As they entered the studio, Dorian Gray put his hand upon Lord Henry’s; arm. “In that case, let our friendship be a caprice,” he murmured,; flushing at his own boldness, then stepped up on the platform and; resumed his pose.
“Of course he likes it,” said Lord Henry. “Who wouldn’t like it? It is; one of the greatest things in modern art. I will give you anything you; like to ask for it. I must have it.”
Dorian Gray turned and looked at him. “I believe you would, Basil. You; like your art better than your friends. I am no more to you than a; green bronze figure. Hardly as much, I dare say.”
The painter stared in amazement. It was so unlike Dorian to speak like; that. What had happened? He seemed quite angry. His face was flushed; and his cheeks burning.
“Come on at a footpace! d’ye mind me? And if you’ve got holsters to that; saddle o’ yourn, don’t let me see your hand go nigh ’em. For I’m a devil; at a quick mistake, and when I make one it takes the form of Lead. So; now let’s look at you.”
The watchful guard, with his right hand at the stock of his raised; blunderbuss, his left at the barrel, and his eye on the horseman,; answered curtly, “Sir.”
“There is nothing to apprehend. I belong to Tellson’s Bank. You must; know Tellson’s Bank in London. I am going to Paris on business. A crown; to drink. I may read this?”
He opened it in the light of the coach-lamp on that side, and; read--first to himself and then aloud: “‘Wait at Dover for Mam’selle.’; It’s not long, you see, guard. Jerry, say that my answer was, RECALLED; TO LIFE.”
“No, Jerry, no!” said the messenger, harping on one theme as he rode.; “It wouldn’t do for you, Jerry. Jerry, you honest tradesman, it wouldn’t; suit _your_ line of business! Recalled--! Bust me if I don’t think he’d; been a drinking!”
The words were still in his hearing as just spoken--distinctly in; his hearing as ever spoken words had been in his life--when the weary; passenger started to the consciousness of daylight, and found that the; shadows of the night were gone.
Completing his resemblance to a man who was sitting for his portrait,; Mr. Lorry dropped off to sleep. The arrival of his breakfast roused him,; and he said to the drawer, as he moved his chair to it:
“I wish accommodation prepared for a young lady who may come here at any; time to-day. She may ask for Mr. Jarvis Lorry, or she may only ask for a; gentleman from Tellson’s Bank. Please to let me know.”
“Yes, sir. We have oftentimes the honour to entertain your gentlemen in; their travelling backwards and forwards betwixt London and Paris, sir. A; vast deal of travelling, sir, in Tellson and Company’s House.”
In a very few minutes the waiter came in to announce that Miss Manette; had arrived from London, and would be happy to see the gentleman from; Tellson’s.
Miss Manette had taken some refreshment on the road, and required none; then, and was extremely anxious to see the gentleman from Tellson’s; immediately, if it suited his pleasure and convenience.
Mr. Lorry moved in his chair, and cast a troubled look towards the; hospital procession of negro cupids. As if _they_ had any help for; anybody in their absurd baskets!
“--rendered it necessary that I should go to Paris, there to communicate; with a gentleman of the Bank, so good as to be despatched to Paris for; the purpose.”
She curtseyed to him (young ladies made curtseys in those days), with a; pretty desire to convey to him that she felt how much older and wiser he; was than she. He made her another bow.
“So far, miss (as you have remarked), this is the story of your; regretted father. Now comes the difference. If your father had not died; when he did--Don’t be frightened! How you start!”
As he said the words he looked down, with an admiring pity, on the; flowing golden hair; as if he pictured to himself that it might have; been already tinged with grey.
“You know that your parents had no great possession, and that what; they had was secured to your mother and to you. There has been no new; discovery, of money, or of any other property; but--”
He felt his wrist held closer, and he stopped. The expression in the; forehead, which had so particularly attracted his notice, and which was; now immovable, had deepened into one of pain and horror.
“A likely thing, too!” replied the strong woman. “If it was ever; intended that I should go across salt water, do you suppose Providence; would have cast my lot in an island?”
The fellow pointed to his joke with immense significance, as is often; the way with his tribe. It missed its mark, and completely failed, as is; often the way with his tribe too.
When this interchange of Christian name was effected, Madame Defarge,; picking her teeth with her toothpick, coughed another grain of cough,; and raised her eyebrows by the breadth of another line.
“It is not often,” said the second of the three, addressing Monsieur; Defarge, “that many of these miserable beasts know the taste of wine, or; of anything but black bread and death. Is it not so, Jacques?”
At this second interchange of the Christian name, Madame Defarge, still; using her toothpick with profound composure, coughed another grain of; cough, and raised her eyebrows by the breadth of another line.
“Ah! So much the worse! A bitter taste it is that such poor cattle; always have in their mouths, and hard lives they live, Jacques. Am I; right, Jacques?”
This third interchange of the Christian name was completed at the moment; when Madame Defarge put her toothpick by, kept her eyebrows up, and; slightly rustled in her seat.
They paid for their wine, and left the place. The eyes of Monsieur; Defarge were studying his wife at her knitting when the elderly; gentleman advanced from his corner, and begged the favour of a word.
“It is very high; it is a little difficult. Better to begin slowly.”;  Thus, Monsieur Defarge, in a stern voice, to Mr. Lorry, as they began; ascending the stairs.
“Of his own necessity. As he was, when I first saw him after they; found me and demanded to know if I would take him, and, at my peril be; discreet--as he was then, so he is now.”
“Why! Because he has lived so long, locked up, that he would be; frightened--rave--tear himself to pieces--die--come to I know not what; harm--if his door was left open.”
There appearing to be no other door on that floor, and the keeper of; the wine-shop going straight to this one when they were left alone, Mr.; Lorry asked him in a whisper, with a little anger:
“I choose them as real men, of my name--Jacques is my name--to whom the; sight is likely to do good. Enough; you are English; that is another; thing. Stay there, if you please, a little moment.”
The door slowly opened inward under his hand, and he looked into the; room and said something. A faint voice answered something. Little more; than a single syllable could have been spoken on either side.
He looked back over his shoulder, and beckoned them to enter. Mr. Lorry; got his arm securely round the daughter’s waist, and held her; for he; felt that she was sinking.
After a long silence, the head was lifted for another moment, and the; voice replied, “Yes--I am working.” This time, a pair of haggard eyes; had looked at the questioner, before the face had dropped again.
The shoemaker stopped his work; looked with a vacant air of listening,; at the floor on one side of him; then similarly, at the floor on the; other side of him; then, upward at the speaker.
“You will need, after your journey, to refresh yourself by making your; toilet. I trust you will find all you wish. When you are ready, come; into the other room, where you will find your supper prepared.”
I found supper already laid out. My host, who stood on one side of the; great fireplace, leaning against the stonework, made a graceful wave of; his hand to the table, and said:--
I handed to him the sealed letter which Mr. Hawkins had entrusted to me.; He opened it and read it gravely; then, with a charming smile, he handed; it to me to read. One passage of it, at least, gave me a thrill of; pleasure.
I am all in a sea of wonders. I doubt; I fear; I think strange things,; which I dare not confess to my own soul. God keep me, if only for the; sake of those dear to me!
Whilst I was looking at the books, the door opened, and the Count; entered. He saluted me in a hearty way, and hoped that I had had a good; night’s rest. Then he went on:--
“I thank you, my friend, for your all too-flattering estimate, but yet I; fear that I am but a little way on the road I would travel. True, I know; the grammar and the words, but yet I know not how to speak them.”
I went into my own room and drew the curtains, but there was little to; notice; my window opened into the courtyard, all I could see was the; warm grey of quickening sky. So I pulled the curtains again, and have; written of this day.
But I am not in heart to describe beauty, for when I had seen the view I; explored further; doors, doors, doors everywhere, and all locked and; bolted. In no place save from the windows in the castle walls is there; an available exit.
It was by this time close on morning, and we went to bed. (_Mem._, this; diary seems horribly like the beginning of the “Arabian Nights,” for; everything has to break off at cockcrow--or like the ghost of Hamlet’s; father.)
“Have you written since your first letter to our friend Mr. Peter; Hawkins, or to any other?” It was with some bitterness in my heart that; I answered that I had not, that as yet I had not seen any opportunity of; sending letters to anybody.
“Then write now, my young friend,” he said, laying a heavy hand on my; shoulder: “write to our friend and to any other; and say, if it will; please you, that you shall stay with me until a month from now.”
“I desire it much; nay, I will take no refusal. When your master,; employer, what you will, engaged that someone should come on his behalf,; it was understood that my needs only were to be consulted. I have not; stinted. Is it not so?”
“I trust you will forgive me, but I have much work to do in private this; evening. You will, I hope, find all things as you wish.” At the door he; turned, and after a moment’s pause said:--
for now, feeling as though my own brain were unhinged or as if the shock; had come which must end in its undoing, I turn to my diary for repose.; The habit of entering accurately must help to soothe me.
The Count’s mysterious warning frightened me at the time; it frightens; me more now when I think of it, for in future he has a fearful hold upon; me. I shall fear to doubt what he may say!
“Yes, I too can love; you yourselves can tell it from the past. Is it; not so? Well, now I promise you that when I am done with him you shall; kiss him at your will. Now go! go! I must awaken him, for there is work; to be done.”
When, an hour or two after, the Count came quietly into the room, his; coming awakened me, for I had gone to sleep on the sofa. He was very; courteous and very cheery in his manner, and seeing that I had been; sleeping, he said:--
_31 May._--This morning when I woke I thought I would provide myself; with some paper and envelopes from my bag and keep them in my pocket, so; that I might write in case I should get an opportunity, but again a; surprise, again a shock!
The suit in which I had travelled was gone, and also my overcoat and; rug; I could find no trace of them anywhere. This looked like some new; scheme of villainy....
It makes me rage to think that this can go on, and whilst I am shut up; here, a veritable prisoner, but without that protection of the law which; is even a criminal’s right and consolation.
“But I would walk with pleasure. I want to get away at once.” He smiled,; such a soft, smooth, diabolical smile that I knew there was some trick; behind his smoothness. He said:--
When I was in my room and about to lie down, I thought I heard a; whispering at my door. I went to it softly and listened. Unless my ears; deceived me, I heard the voice of the Count:--
_30 June, morning._--These may be the last words I ever write in this; diary. I slept till just before the dawn, and when I woke threw myself; on my knees, for I determined that if Death came he should find me; ready.
But the door would not move. Despair seized me. I pulled, and pulled, at; the door, and shook it till, massive as it was, it rattled in its; casement. I could see the bolt shot. It had been locked after I left the; Count.
The door is shut, and the chains rattle; there is a grinding of the key; in the lock; I can hear the key withdraw: then another door opens and; shuts; I hear the creaking of lock and bolt.
Hark! in the courtyard and down the rocky way the roll of heavy wheels,; the crack of whips, and the chorus of the Szgany as they pass into the; distance.
I shall not remain alone with them; I shall try to scale the castle wall; farther than I have yet attempted. I shall take some of the gold with; me, lest I want it later. I may find a way from this dreadful place.
And then away for home! away to the quickest and nearest train! away; from this cursed spot, from this cursed land, where the devil and his; children still walk with earthly feet!
At least God’s mercy is better than that of these monsters, and the; precipice is steep and high. At its foot a man may sleep--as a man.; Good-bye, all! Mina!
“Tell me all the news when you write. You have not told me anything for; a long time. I hear rumours, and especially of a tall, handsome,; curly-haired man???”
I could see from the old fellow’s self-satisfied air and the way in; which he looked round for the approval of his cronies that he was; “showing off,” so I put in a word to keep him going:--
“But,” I said, “surely you are not quite correct, for you start on the; assumption that all the poor people, or their spirits, will have to; take their tombstones with them on the Day of Judgment. Do you think; that will be really necessary?”
_11 a. m._--The attendant has just been to me to say that Renfield has; been very sick and has disgorged a whole lot of feathers. “My belief is,; doctor,” he said, “that he has eaten his birds, and that he just took; and ate them raw!”
“I want to say something to you, miss.” I could see he was not at ease,; so I took his poor old wrinkled hand in mine and asked him to speak; fully; so he said, leaving his hand in mine:--
I was glad when the coastguard came along, with his spy-glass under his; arm. He stopped to talk with me, as he always does, but all the time; kept looking at a strange ship.
On 6 July we finished taking in cargo, silver sand and boxes of earth.; At noon set sail. East wind, fresh. Crew, five hands ... two mates,; cook, and myself (captain).
On 12 July through Dardanelles. More Customs officers and flagboat of; guarding squadron. Backsheesh again. Work of officers thorough, but; quick. Want us off soon. At dark passed into Archipelago.
I think it will be best for her to go to bed tired out physically, so I; shall take her for a long walk by the cliffs to Robin Hood’s Bay and; back. She ought not to have much inclination for sleep-walking then.
She looks so sweet as she sleeps; but she is paler than is her wont, and; there is a drawn, haggard look under her eyes which I do not like. I; fear she is fretting about something. I wish I could find out what it; is.
“We beg to acknowledge £10 received and to return cheque £1 17s. 9d,; amount of overplus, as shown in receipted account herewith. Goods are; delivered in exact accordance with instructions, and keys left in parcel; in main hall, as directed.
“What?” I said. “You don’t mean to tell me you don’t care about; spiders?” (Spiders at present are his hobby and the note-book is filling; up with columns of small figures.) To this he answered enigmatically:--
“The bride-maidens rejoice the eyes that wait the coming of the bride;; but when the bride draweth nigh, then the maidens shine not to the eyes; that are filled.”